Refresh pipelines overview (#9115)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/pipelines.adoc

:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:

CircleCI pipelines are the highest-level unit of work in your CI/CD process. Defined by a configuration file (typically `.circleci/config.yml`), pipelines orchestrate the execution of _workflows_ which run _jobs_ to build, test, and deploy your code.

Pipelines can be triggered in the following ways:

* Automatically: Git events, scheduled events, custom webhooks
* Manually: CircleCI app or API

Pipelines provide a flexible framework for creating conditional workflows based on xref:workflows#using-filters-in-your-workflows[filters], xref:workflows#workflows-configuration-examples[job requirements], and xref:selecting-a-workflow-to-run-using-pipeline-parameters#[pipeline parameters], allowing you to customize your CI/CD process to fit your project's needs.

== Pipelines dashboard

> Your pipelines dashboard displays recently-triggered pipelines for your organization. Use the various filters to find the pipelines you need. Click through to xref:jobs-steps#access-jobs-and-steps-in-the-circleci-app[view workflow maps and individual job steps]. Access quick controls to rerun and cancel workflows

Reviewer: I think it's missing a full stop + I'm not actually sure what "access quick controls" means - I guess the 3 dots?

:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:

CircleCI pipelines are the highest-level unit of work in your CI/CD process. Defined by a configuration file (typically `.circleci/config.yml`), pipelines orchestrate the execution of _workflows_ which run _jobs_ to build, test, and deploy your code.

Pipelines can be triggered in the following ways:

> * Automatically: code changes, scheduled events, custom webhooks

Reviewer: I wonder if "Git events" is more explicit than "code changes"? Don't feel too strongly about it though

* Manually: CircleCI app or API

Pipelines provide a flexible framework for creating conditional workflows based on xref:workflows#using-filters-in-your-workflows[filters], xref:workflows#workflows-configuration-examples[job requirements], and xref:selecting-a-workflow-to-run-using-pipeline-parameters#[pipeline parameters], allowing you to customize your CI/CD process to fit your project's needs.

== Pipelines dashboard

> Your pipelines dashboard displays recently-triggered pipelines for your organization. Use the various filters to find the pipelines you need. Click through to view workflow maps and individual job steps. Access quick controls to rerun and cancel workflows

Reviewer: Would it make sense to link from "view workflow maps and individual job steps" to docs/jobs-steps/#access-jobs-and-steps-in-the-circleci-app ?

image::pipelines-dashboard.png[Screenshot of the pipelines dashboard in the CircleCI app]

From the pipelines dashboard you can find the _pipeline ID_. The pipeline ID is a unique ID for a pipeline that has been triggered. You can use the pipeline ID to access pipeline information via the link:https://circleci.com/docs/api/v2/index.html#tag/Pipeline/operation/getPipelineValuesById[API].

image::pipeline-id.png[Screenshot showing the location on the pipeline ID]

== Pipelines and triggers

NOTE: The pipeline and trigger features available to you depend on how your code is integrated and where it is stored. For a feature availability overview, see the xref:version-control-system-integration-overview#[VCS integration overview] page.

NOTE: **Using CircleCI server?** The Pipeline and Trigger pages under Project Settings and pipeline and trigger add/edit functionality is **not** available.

> Set up pipelines to define the code to checkout and the config to use for your project CI/CD..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up pipelines to define the code to checkout and the config to use for your project CI/CD.
```

Reviewer: Actually, reading this again in context, I wonder if talking about checkout and config here is too soon - I suppose users don't set up pipelines **in order to** define config and checkout source.

Maybe something like
> Set up pipelines to define the different CI/CD [units/pieces/scripts/?] that make up your project.

Author: how about: "Set up pipelines to define the various CI/CD "units" that make up your project."

Reviewer: i like it

Set up triggers to define when and how a pipeline is triggered for a project. Triggers may be from external services (custom webhooks), from commits or tags on a version control system, or set up to run on a schedule.

=== Pipelines

A pipeline defines a unit of work that can be run within your projects. Each pipeline is defined by two key characteristics:

* A config source, which is a configuration file stored in a repository. The default config source location is `.circleci/config.yml` within the same repositry as your code.
+
TIP: For GitHub App and Bitbucket Data Center pipelines you can choose any file path (with extension `*.yml`) in any repository.

* A checkout source, which determines which repository will be checked out when running a xref:configuration-reference#checkout[checkout step].
+
TIP: This model allows your CircleCI config to be stored in a different repository from your code. This is currently supported for GitHub App and Bitbucket Data Center pipelines.

A project can have one or more pipelines, and each pipeline can be associated with zero or more triggers.

> When you create a project in CircleCI and follow the in-app project creation flow to connect it to a repository, a first pipeline is set up for you automatically. The config source is either a file you commit yourself or one generated by CircleCI based on the code in your project. You can identify the type (GitHub App, OAuth, custom webhook, scheduled) of a pipeline using the badges in the Config Source column on the menu:Project Settings[Pipelines] page.

Reviewer: > You can identify the type (GitHub App, OAuth, custom webhook, scheduled) of a pipeline using the badges in the Config Source column on the menu:Project Settings[Pipelines] page.
I think this refers to type of triggers rather than pipelines? 

```suggestion
When you create a project in CircleCI and follow the in-app project creation flow to connect it to a repository, a first pipeline is set up for you automatically. The config file used for your first pipeline is either a file you commit yourself or one generated by CircleCI based on the code in your project.
```

> Each pipeline has a _Definition ID_. This is a UUID for the pipeline, which can be used to refer to a specific pipeline when triggering a pipeline xref:triggers-overview#run-a-pipeline-using-the-api[via the API].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each pipeline has a _Definition ID_. This is a UUID for the pipeline, which can be used to refer to a specific pipeline when triggering it xref:triggers-overview#run-a-pipeline-using-the-api[via the API].
```

image::project-settings-pipelines.png[Pipelines page in project settings]

==== Add or edit a pipeline

TIP: If you created a project xref:create-project#[in the CircleCI web app] you will find a pipeline is already set up.

NOTE: GitHub and Bitbucket OAuth pipelines are created automatically when setting up a project and they cannot be edited.

> The steps and options described in this section are for setting up a GitHub App pipeine. If you are setting up a pipeline for a different version control system the options you see may vary but the process is largely the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps and options described in this section are for setting up a GitHub App pipeline. If you are setting up a pipeline for a different version control system the options you see may vary but the process is largely the same.
```

. Select btn:[Add Pipeline], or, if you wish to edit an existing pipeline select the pencil icon on the right.
. Complete the form fields and options:
** Give your pipeline a descriptive name, for example `Run tests and deploy`.
** Under Integration select the platform that matches where your project is set up (for example, GitHub App).
+

> NOTE: If you integrate with xref:github-integration#[CircleCI's GitHub OAuth App] you can select GitHub App here to install the App into your org and access xref:github-integration#using-github-app-functionality[improved security and new features].

Reviewer: I think we could add here that this is a one-time step that must be done by an organization or repo admin

TIP: If you created a project xref:create-project#[in the CircleCI web app] you will find a trigger is already set up.

NOTE: GitHub and Bitbucket OAuth triggers are created automatically when setting up a project and they cannot be edited. The only trigger you can create and edit for an OAuth pipeline is a xref:scheduled-pipelines#[scheduled pipeline trigger].

> Triggers are rules to define that a pipeline should be run on a given event. A project can have one or more triggers, which are associated with events from a source of change. The most common type of trigger is a VCS event, for example a push to a branch on a GitHub repository, but any system that can emit outbound webhooks can also be set up as a trigger. A trigger can have only one pipeline but a pipeline can have multiple triggers.

Author: How about: Triggers are configurable rules that determine when to automatically run a pipeline based on specific events and conditions

> Triggers are rules to define that a pipeline should be run on a given event. A project can have one or more triggers, which are associated with events from a source of change. The most common type of trigger is a VCS event, for example a push to a branch on a GitHub repository, but any system that can emit outbound webhooks can also be set up as a trigger. A trigger can have only one pipeline but a pipeline can have multiple triggers.

Reviewer: great, i like it

Setting up a custom webhook trigger allows you to trigger pipelines from external services. Any service that can emit a webhook or make a cURL request can be set up in this way to trigger a pipeline. For more information, see the xref:triggers-overview#trigger-a-pipeline-from-a-custom-webhook[Triggers overview] page.

> NOTE: Custom webhooks are available for GitHub App pipelines only. This includes GitHub App pipelines set up within a xref:github-integration#using-github-app-functionality[GitHub OAuth org].

Reviewer: Can we suggest that users look at their Project Settings > Pipelines page to check if they have a pipeline with the "GitHub App" pill on it, and if not they create one?

Reviewer: Also I'm reading this again, I think "are available" makes it sound like certain segments of users can't access them. 
How about `Custom webhook triggers can only be added to (or associated to) GitHub App pipelines. You can check if you have a GitHub App pipeline by going to Project Settings > Pipelines and checking if any of your pipelines has a "GitHub App" pill on the Config Source column. If needed, create a new pipeline through the button "Add pipeline".`
